# MSU Data Analytics Project 1 - Group 6
- Annely Manguera
- Azi Farooquee
- Peter Solis

## Scenario:

We have been tasked with exploring data on movies to identify revenue trends and potential correlations with various actors, genres, release windows, etc. with the ultimate goal of picking the right ingredients to make a successful movie.

## Factors We Intend to Investigate:
1. Movie revenue by release month
2. Movie genre revenue by release month
3. Revenue by genre
4. Initial investment vs revenue (ROI calculation)
5. Actors' correlation to a movie's success
6. Directors' correlation to movie's success
7. Franchise or comic-based movies revenue performance vs non-franchise movies 
8. Movie rating's correlation to revenue

## File Structure Explanation:
(In order of workflow)
- Data Manipulation: Directory containing all code & data.
  - Data Retrieval Code: API calls and other code used specifically to retrieve raw data.
  - Raw Data: Most base form of data, before being cleaned or manipulated.
  - Data Cleaning Code: Code focusing on cleaning up and manipulating the data, then using that data to create visualizations.
  - Cleaned Data: Final, clean datasets used for the creation of visualizations
- Analysis: Directory containing our findings and visuals created from the cleaned data.
  - Visualizations: Visuals created from cleaned data.
  - Analysis & Presentation: Final write-up and slide presentation analyzing the factors investigated.
- project_proposal.md: Initial proposal for the project. 

## Final Data Points:
- Movie ID: The movie's unique identifier on themoviedb.org
- Title: Title of the movie
- Average Rating: Average rating given by users on themoviedb.org
- Number of User Ratings
- TMDb Popularity Score: A score generated by themoviedb.org based on an aggregate of factors, including number of votes, favorites, and other user interaction. The metric essentially represents current online interest in the movie.
- Gross Revenue: Revenue the film made
- Net Revenue: Revenue after subtracting the budget
- Net Revenue (% Over Budget): Revenue expressed as the % the movie made over the budget. A movie with a budget of 5 that earned 5 would thus be 0, where a movie with a budget of 5 that earned 10 would be 1 (5 over budget). This metric was calculated as a way to view revenue without much concern for the size of the budget, or, more importantly, inflation.
- Budget: Amount spent on production of the movie
- Release Date: Date of release (MM/DD/YYYY)
- Release Day
- Release Month
- Release Year
- Genre 1-5: A list of up to 5 genres the movie falls under
- Runtime (Minutes): Length of the movie
- 1st-3rd Billing: Top 3 credited actors
- Director

Data sourced from https://www.themoviedb.org/ using TMDb API.

https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/ was used as a reference during coding.